[Excel](shared runtime) Adding preview docs for shared runtime (#1585)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/run-code-on-document-open.md

---
title: Run code in your Excel add-in when the document opens (preview)
description: Run code in your Excel add-in when the document opens. 
ms.date: 02/06/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Run code in your Excel add-in when the document opens (preview)

[!include[Running custom functions in browser runtime note](../includes/excel-shared-runtime-preview-note.md)]

You can configure your Excel add-in to load and run code as soon as the document is opened. This is useful if you need to register event handlers, preload data for the task pane, synchronize UI, or perform other tasks before the add-in is visible.

[!include[Excel shared runtime note](../includes/note-requires-shared-runtime.md)]

## Code samples for configuring load behavior

The following code samples illustrate how to configure the start up behavior for your add-in, which could include running a custom function. These code samples also assume you have already modified your add-in's manifest and task pane HTML file so custom functions can utilize Office.js APIs.

### Set add-in to start on document open

> The following code sets the add-in to load immediately the next time the document is opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, an add-in does not load when the document is opened. You can specify whether the add-in will load or not the next time the add-in loads with the `Office.addin.setStartupBehavior()` and the `Office.StartupBehavior` enum. The following code would set the add-in to load immediately the next time the document is opened.
```

To set the add-in to not load when the document is next opened, pass `none` as the parameter:

```JavaScript
Office.addin.setStartupBehavior(Office.StartupBehavior.none);
```

### Get the current load behavior

To determine what the current startup behavior is, run the following function, which returns an Office.StartupBehavior object.

```JavaScript
let behavior = await Office.addin.getStartupBehavior();
```

## Code sample for running when document loads

When your add-in is configured to load on document open, it will run immediately. The `Office.initialize` event handler will be called. Place your startup code in the `Office.initialize` event handler.

An example scenario of running code when the document opens is to display your task pane immediately. The following code shows how to show the task pane as soon as the document is opened.

```JavaScript
//This is called as soon as the document opens.
//Put your startup code here.
Office.initialize = () => {
  // Display the task pane
  SetRuntimeVisibleHelper(true);
};

//Display or hide the task pane based on visible parameter
function SetRuntimeVisibleHelper = (visible) => {
  let p;
  if (visible) {

>     p = Office.addin.showAsTaskpane();

Reviewer: Whoa. This example uses 2 APIs that are themselves brand new and not documented. `showAsTaskpane` and `hide`. If these are releasing as preview at the same time as `setStartupBehavior` then we also need an article about them. Something like what I wrote here: [Reveal or hide an Office Add-in in a shared runtime (preview](https://microsoft.sharepoint-df.com/:w:/t/CustomFunctionsPartners/Eclkua6uUKxHgY7_f_HIICoBqb4FqLHvfo_9wgcnBfd52Q?e=bGFGrR)

Reviewer: I will convert my doc to markdown an add it to my PR for the Shared Runtime Req Set
